I just remember being kid just like
watching him for hours
[Applause]
we know what the hell who does it all
that's pause pause Anders that what the
he's a legend patience a legend you
know very so around to see him skating
out there just know there's something
different about him the highest pop I've
probably still ever seen
[Applause]
he was just unbelievably ahead of his
time couldn't even fathom how you could
do like that so effortlessly I
don't really know what happened really
with reading his when he wasn't around
and stuff you know and people still talk
about him and people so reminisce about
myself for sure like I knew he'd had his
battles you know because you'd see him
come out he'd be here he'd skate and
he'd be gone
that's how I remember Paul always a bit
gangster always got that little grin I
guess we looked after Paul a little
tried to influence him a little he was
the kid who we could always get to
kickflip the stairs that we've already
didn't want to kickflip
[Music]
we're all from good backgrounds lived in
nice villages on our boards skate in the
streets causing a bit of trouble in the
village never having a lift home and
just having to skate everywhere just
doing what skate kids did I guess and
then obviously when we got a bit older
we started smoking and pulled 12 to 13
when he started I was smoking by 14
it was smoking I lost he was just always
out with all the guys so his praise came
from the older guys which at that age is
pretty cool feeling paul's ability on a
skateboard
he was quite frankly incredible he was
progressing so quick but then with him
going to Bristol he was just out killing
[Music]
first time I met Paul was when when him
and his brother moved here to Bristol
and I never met either of them and
randomly one day I got a call from Steve
he's like yeah you live in this house
and you got like I heard you got two
spare bedrooms and yeah me and my
brother were moving down we need a place
so I was like okay yeah calm like
moving to my place so they just showed
up on the door with boxes it was the
first time I met they were both the pain
in the ass like they cook dinner and
leave the oven on and go out and like
you come back a day later and the ovens
about to explode
well they've washed dishes which was
very rare and leave the tap on everyone
was around all the time you know because
summer you got nothing to do but we get
high and we just basically went skating
and you know hung out and it was super
dope
[Music]
the crew is really tight we would make
the videos good filming like a simple
back then we used to place weed all day
use to smoke ten bongs and go skating it
keeps a young skateboarder after me for
me I used to feel off being around imp
is what he did was dope the
district's higher than everyone we do it
up a curb you threw over a bench I've
really learnt a lot from that a
[Applause]
Superfund DePaul definitely like
whatever he turns his hand to he does it
in his style and he does it his way like
if you've seen him play football how he
controls a ball or dancing everything
he's like he's got the rhythm he's got
it you're hanging out and you chillin
you know after skating and he's like on
his back flipping the board around with
such crazy control
but like some of the stuff we did
without just having a laugh
[Music]
things were good he was killing getting
more attention than ever with
photographers and a film isn't getting
in the mags a lot more he was climbing
up my name is doing whoa he's getting
covers of magazines and used pictures
sponsors shoe company board company I
never saw any reason to think that he's
got something going on or none of that
never not once you know he's smarter and
quicker and sharper than everyone
I remember playing his day the
day when it all started happening he
called me up and he's like Danny man
you're in danger and I was like what do
you mean I meant it more what he's like
they're coming for you so I pour who's
coming what he's like man I seen a car a
red car went by and it had a D and a W
in the license plate and then another
car came and a red one and I can add
some numbers in and it means they're
coming for you minor and I was like dude
where are you you hadn't slept for days
he was having problems with his
girlfriend and I think you know that and
smoking and not sleeping that's what
sort of started everything off right
yeah I don't want to water for long -
[Music]
yeah oh man I can't really I can't
really go into it really I was in love
and I was heartbroken when it was over
and a bit paranoid to be honest I don't
know I don't know what's a we don't just
I just I just got ill for some reason I
don't know what happened I just it just
clicked and I just became unwell
I was trying to go to sleep if I
couldn't go to sleep and I've never been
in that situation before in my life so I
just sort of walked off on my own I
didn't come back for Chuy's it's just
walking around like a zombie I'd been
awake for so long I couldn't remember
what I've done you know or days we'll be
missing out of the week I'd keep some
weed on me anyway in my pocket and I was
just walking around the street at night
on my own walking like 20 miles and I I
think I weighed about ten and a half
stone
I looked ill everyone was worried about
me
I would be in the center of college
green pretty much very deluded person I
thought every time I heard the sirens of
a police car
there's someone rang the police on me so
I used to think the police were sentence
watch me the arm in descending to watch
me and depending on what my eyeballs
were doing like above left above right
down right up down left I my own code
for working it all out
that's how complicated it got and I used
to actually be scared of moving my eyes
and stuff like that I was gambling on
the tricks that I was doing I used to
think that all cars were sent to me and
that the girls were there to see me and
that depended on what tricks are made I
can leave of the girls in the cars so if
I pulled a switch 360 flip first go 3
times in a row I'd make I'd have a
Ferrari or something like that I used to
think that it was all being filmed from
above at the green when I was skating
the weird part about it was as I
actually believed that I'd made the
greatest film of all time the film that
I believed was happening that wasn't
happening
[Music]
I don't know why I used to go to college
green every day when when I was as in
that is that really the problem is is my
illness followed me around
I probably turned a blind eye for a
minute because I didn't know how to deal
with it I didn't know what to do I
didn't you know I got no experience of
this or whatever
ie B or ie get some sleeping these
things of Libya rights lay off the weed
for a bit you know he's a he's a
homeys close mate and you're just like
what I'll do like what's going on she
just escalated you know I mean I've got
I'm just saying something quiet people
were noticing it you know saying bizarre
things a little bit the mental health
team was called in managed to round him
up and say look we feel that you've got
a Susan that you need a bit of helper
here so we'll we will have to organise
to send you off to a mental hospital for
a short spell the first time I was
sectioned or whatever it was pretty
scary experience what they gave me was a
drug called her a peridot and how a
peridot makes she sort of like shiver
it's like you know it's more powerful
than any drug I've ever had on the
street and it was like a proper scary
experience so I felt ill all the time
throughout the whole day the first time
I went in 28 days seemed like years the
medication was scare really strong you
know you're thinking how am I ever going
to skate again you can barely walk down
the street I said to dad I don't want to
be involved in this this medication make
me feel ill it's making me feel ill
please get me out of here he was kept in
hospital for about further three months
and then he came home to live with me
yeah I remember they it sends me like
you're not gonna try a few kick flips on
flat to warm up forever I saw something
I've done about a million he's
gonna go for me I never thought that I'd
ever achieve anything in the skate you
know ever get anywhere good it was just
a dream for me as a kid because I wanted
to be a pro skater you know and then to
be in the magazine I never thought that
I had up and you know so I was pretty
stoked went on tour first to Barcelona
with a Cyrus I think they went to
Ireland Portugal the prod ones and for
Barcelona trips they were probably the
best skate trips I've been on when I got
my front cover for the magazine I had a
sneaky feeling it might be from cover
anyway because it was that good and idea
to do a photo in a launderette
lift out he was actually there during
his washing I see him about a week later
and I said mate you're on the front
cover of the skate magazine because
you're in the background it's hard if
you not to be bitter it's society when
you see people out there who were more
crazy than you and I was doing something
positive with my life I was gonna be a
pro skater you know I was gonna make
everyone proud I was gonna make everyone
happen and that was my dream and they
got shot down
[Music]
he's always been someone that I've had
an interest in because I've had my
of mental health you know like I got
sectioned a few years ago so I feel like
I have some what have an understanding
like what maybe not as much as him but
I've been in those places and I know how
they are I was there for about six
weeks but I know that if you stay that
much longer than that and you don't have
the right network of people it's just a
psycho and you're never going to
go out you know of all of your friends
are like you probably got one too that
you can really talk to
that's just generally how a lot of guys
are they kind of skim the surface and
then they'll just keep things in
[Music]
especially in a circle of skiers and
hanging out it's all cool and it's all
this and that like everything's cool and
everything needs to stay cool you know
skaters for life man loves to be
vulnerable and really let yourself be
open like that I think opens you up for
ridicule or a lot of people don't really
hear you either you know tell me you
just carry a lot of with you and
you don't talk about it
it took me ages to understand what he
was going through to be fair like I
didn't get it straight away because I've
known him so well before I knew that it
was something that was out of his
control he was the same character but
you'd always see in his li did there was
something that he was thinking about
I remember the kids that had been
skating with him before Bristol and then
I Wow poor scary and he was talking some
weird stuff was tough to say that he's
always you know don't be afraid of him
he's fine he's just you know thinking of
some crazy stuff like that I feel bad in
a way because that I lost touch with
Paul you know and he went to Leicester
and he went in our sport you know I have
my crazy life going on at the
time to lose contact for that space of
time yeah I feel guilty about that you
know I feel bad about that we went from
hanging out a lot to he was unless
they're doing this thing and having a
hard time you know them you know our
lives all carried on
I was scarred by being in hospital and
being trapped not doing anything
positive I'm a quite a wild person and I
think that sometimes they get the wrong
idea about that like if you put someone
in prison you know they get out and
they're a wild animal they just end up
going back and back and it's similar to
what happens to you in mental hospital
I've sort of pretended that I'm cool
about the situation when realistically
it hurts me a lot more than that but I
got out once and I didn't have any
charisma left in me and my girlfriend
left me and we were gonna have a family
together you know I worry about some of
the people in my life and some of the
effects of them being around me when I
was mentally ill I just wish that I
could prove that I'm well so that they
could rest and be relaxed and think our
pools gone back to while it used to be
because I feel like I am still that
person that I used to be using
skateboarding is Paul Saviour this is
where to freedom free movement and
perhaps freeing up from his problems
I'm not gonna give up skating I'm never
gonna give up skating and I'm never
gonna give up try and they'd get myself
well and give myself therapy because I
feel like you know one day it were too
late and I won't be on this earth
anymore
[Music]